Hopefully you've spent some time on this big assignment
for the section. I know it's big. There's lots to do.
There's lots of little things, and you probably had to
reference a lot of videos, and maybe even some Internet
resources. That's fine. That's really, I think, the best
way to learn is by doing.
If you weren't doing the stuff in each individual lecture,
this assignment is definitely going to help you retain all
of that talking I did.
This is me going through it myself.
I've done it a couple of times just to build the assignment
up, but I haven't necessarily memorized, and I'm not using
a cheat sheet. I may not get things right the first time,
but we'll see how it goes. The readme starts with the idea
around this fictional narrative that you are the Node.js
developer, on a multi-application environment,
and they've given you this sort of generic Compose file.
Your responsibility is the result service and
the app behind that that's running Node.js.
Then you just need everything else there in order to help
test and use this thing, right, when you're developing it.
It's a great model for common scenarios that
you're going to run into in the real world.
I'm just going to scroll down and start working on these
bullets one at a time.
Of course, there is no real order to these things.
It doesn't really matter the order you do them in.
It's just a matter of getting your Compose file good enough
that you can try to start it and then see where maybe the
bugs lie, or the things that you haven't set up properly
are. I will probably run into some of that.
The first one there is set for Compose file version to the
latest 2.x I've done for us, so
it's 2.4 as of this video that was the latest.
Healthcheck for Postgres taken from the depends on lecture.
That healthcheck can
go down here as a new line, healthcheck.
Then I need to add in the test.
If I go back to that sample file for
the depends on, I get the
pg_isready script.
I'm just going to copy and paste that from that healthy
Compose file inside the depends on folder from
that depends on video.
An interesting thing of note here on the PG is
that the user...you don't necessarily
need to have it, but if you don't have the right user in
there, then you will get a little warning.
It'll actually say fatal inside of your log
saying that that user doesn't exist or that role doesn't
exist. That's not a huge deal.
It doesn't actually affect the test at all.
It just shows up stuff in the log.
You may or may not need to have the user in there.
All right.
The second one here is the healthcheck for Redis, which
I've given to you since that wasn't in any examples.
If you remember, going back to the lecture on depends
on stuff, I sent you a resource for
finding these various types of healthchecks from the
Docker official repo that they have on GitHub that shows a
bunch of samples. That's kind of where I pulled this from.
I made it a little shorter so that it doesn't need to be
an if then statement. It just is a simple little Redis CLI.
I just do a healthcheck here.
There we go. Now that we have both of our healthchecks
here, we can use the depends on on all the other stuff
that needs these applications.
Then they will be checking themselves to make sure they're
available. If you've got a dependency diagram, which
we don't have in this example, but if you did, you would
see that things like the vote, depends on, the Redis
image, and so I've given those as one liners in here.
On line 16, the vote service depends on the Redis
service. I need to add the depends on,
and then Redis.
Remember that we need to add in that condition.
Just putting in Redis alone doesn't cause
any startup delays.
It just starts things, you know, within a second or so
after each other. It technically starts them later
but not in a way that's going to benefit us in terms of
availability. I need to add in the
condition.
Service healthy.
Then I can copy that into other apps, so I can just
copy that out because the
result app depends on other ones, so I can
add that in.
The result app depends on the db.
Then the worker app needs both because it pulls
things from Redis and adds them into the database.
Let's focus on the result app.
Up here where we need to worry about things, it
says on line 20, result is a node app and subdirectory
result.
Let's bind mount it. I need to add
a volumes here,
and then add in....I know result is
the subdirectory.
That needs to go into the container.
How did I know that that was app inside the container?
That's by looking at the Dockerfile.
If I just go inside the result directory and look at the
Dockerfile, I can see that
it copies the app into the app directory
inside the container, and that's the one I need to mount
over here in the volume.
Next, on line 21, result should be built from the
Dockerfile in results.
That's already done for us up here on line 31 and 32.
I have the build and the context result, so it
knows to go into that result directory to build the
Dockerfile to make me a custom image.
That's done for us.
Line 22, add a traffic proxy service from proxy
lecture example. Have it running on a published port
of your choosing and direct the vote.localhost
and result.local host to their respective services
so that you can use Chrome.
That's a long one. The easy thing to do here is really just
copy and paste from the example in the proxy lecture.
I simply pasted in the example for traffic from
the previous lecture. It'll work here with a few
modifications.
If I go down to the labels, I want to remove
the vcap.me.
It's not going to harm anything, but for this example, we
were going to try to use Chrome.
We can use the localhost feature of Chrome
to send our stuff here.
Then I'm going to leave the ports
at 8080, but you might want to change yours to
8088, or 9000, or something that was a little more
open, maybe, if you already have something else running on
port 80. For me, I'm just going to leave it at port 80.
Then I'm going to copy the labels area.
Then that's what I'm going to paste into the
services that need the redirection.
That's vote
and result. Both of them need that.
Then I know for the result app, it runs on port
80. The way I can kind of tell that is a cheat.
It's up here. The ports are open on port 80.
It's pointing to that port in the container.
I can also go look at the Dockerfile or just in the app
itself.
Then I want to change this host traffic rule
here to result.
The same up here with vote.
If I go up, I see that the vote app is also running on port
80. I will change this port.
Change this to vote.
An interesting thing to note here is that you can leave
these ports here in case you want direct access to your
applications.
Maybe for better troubleshooting.
Maybe it's convenient to go through the proxies so that you
can have the nice friendly names and have everything
listening on one port.
But, when you're doing troubleshooting, you might
think that maybe the proxy is part of the problem.
Maybe it's not submitting the proper headers or maybe
there's something getting lost in the translation of the
proxy. I always tend to leave the extra high ports
open.
I don't use them by default and they're there in case I
need them. You can take this out if you don't really want
those ports, and then it all goes through that single proxy
published port.
All right in line 25, let's add nodemon to the results
service based on file watching lecture.
You may need to get nodemon into the result image somehow.
If I go and I actually check the Dockerfile,
nodemon is actually in there.
I didn't put it but it was already there by default.
That's an interesting thing.
If I didn't have the ability to edit
the Dockerfile. Maybe someone else controls the Dockerfile
and I'm on a project where I don't have that permission.
I could technically, in the command in my Compose
file, I could make that command npm
install -g nodemon and then do
2 ampersands.
Then the command that I needed to run like nodemon.
That would essentially, whenever the container starts up,
install nodemon and then run nodemon.
I don't need to do that here because they've already
installed nodemon for me.
If I go down to the result, I can change the command.
Because it's global, I can just specify nodemon.
Because I know there's another bullet coming up for
turning on debugging, I'm just going do that here
now.
You always remember that you need to put the four 0's in
there for nodemon to have it listen on all interfaces.
That way, it's accessible from my host.
9229.
Then the app's file server.js,
which I can find from the Dockerfile for that.
Now
an interesting little problem that I tend to have sometimes
as I get the nodemon stuff out of order, I'll often put
nodemon server.js and then the nodemon options
after that. They don't work, but it won't error out.
It won't throw you an error necessarily so you won't
know that. The way to always make sure that inspection is
working, because that's the common one that I throw in
there, is that when you launch the app, it will say
debugging is enabled and it'll show you the debugging
URL.
So I always look for that to make sure that my debugging
ports are working.
I also now need to, on line 27,
put the node environment variable in.
Then I need to enable debugging, which I've already done in
the command line here on 51.
Then I need to publish the ports, so you
can't forget about that.
Need to get port 9229, which is the
default.
All right. I'm at a point now where I think I can save
and try to do a docker compose up.
It's giving me a YAML error which is probably the most
common type of error that I have because I'm not always
correct in my proper YAML typing.
Sometimes, it's actually the editor causing improper
indentation or different settings that you maybe don't want
in your YAML. Let me go back in there.
It's saying it's on line 5.
That's my problem, so that's easy.
Aha! It looks like I have forgotten
the name. I didn't properly paste this in.
I'm going to call this proxy.
I can already see another problem here that I've got.
When you're putting in the proxy,
now what's interesting about this container is that
this container needs to have access to all the ones it
needs to proxy.
I haven't added any networks to it because on
the previous example for the previous lecture, we just used
the default network.
But, in this application, we have custom networks.
In fact, if you scroll down to the bottom, you'll see
there's the frontend and backend.
If you were to look at the result
and the voting app, you'll find that one is on the frontend
and one is on the backend. So, technically my proxy needs
to be on both of those networks to be able to access those
apps. I need to add the proxy to those or it's not
going to work. In fact, it'll just say gateway not found or
something like that if it can't access the backend
containers. Another way you could do this is to create a
dedicated proxy network and then add an additional
network to all the containers called proxy
where you basically isolate the proxy traffic to just
that network.
I'm going to do the first option here where I'm just going
to add it simply to the backend and frontend
instead of creating the new network called proxy.
All right. Let's try it again.
Here's a great one is that if you misspell things,
they're going to show up in the error is usually when
you come out. Now that's only for the YAML option.
The objects themselves, not necessarily the value of the
objects, but the object names themselves.
It looks like I've misspelled healthcheck.
That is helpful.
It would not be easy to find the different
misspellings.
It says If I go to Redis, that I should see the
healthcheck. Yep.
That's misspelled.
Try it one more time. All right. So far, so good.
All right, looks like my app is fully booted.
The databases have been created and my result and
worker apps are nice enough that they actually tell us when
they're connected to the database. That's handy.
In order to ensure everything is going to work well, there
are four bullets at the bottom of the
readme, so I can go through those and make sure that they
work as expected.
The first one here is I just need to go to make sure file
watching is working.
I need to go edit one of the files in result, so
I'll go into the server.js and save that file,
and make sure that my nodemon restarts.
If yours doesn't do that, the chances
are you're probably on Windows, and you need to add into
your nodemon line the Legacy polling
option. You can simply look that up on the nodemon home
page or the readme on nodemon's
GitHub repo.
That'll tell you the option that you need to add into your
nodemon line or in your nodemon configuration
if you use in the config file.
That will make sure that it's seeing the files and whenever
you write a file, it restarts.
Next on the list, ensure that I never see waiting for db
in the Docker Compose logs, which happens if my
healthchecks aren't working correctly.
I don't think I saw that which means we're working
correctly.
I would see that multiple times, typically, if I didn't
have the healthchecks and that depends on stuff all set up
correctly. Then the apps themselves wouldn't
connect. The nice thing is, is in this demo app,
the application, the result, and the vote apps both have
retries. If it can't connect to the database the first
time, it will put that waiting for db message and then
retry a few seconds later.
Not every app is going to have that.
Some apps will just crash.
Some apps will just freeze and not do anything.
The nice thing is these apps will warn you properly.
Ideally, we don't want that.
We want to fix it with the depends on and the healthchecks
stuff, and that's what we did.
Hopefully, you don't see those.
In line 35, we have use the VS code, or another editor
with debugger, to connect to the debugger.
You've seen a previous example in the previous lectures of
VS code. Another option we have is since we've
started debugging, is to just go into Chrome,
which has a built-in debugger.
You get there by typing chrome://inspect.
I can never remember if it's inspect or devices.
It actually shows chrome inspect, and it'll show anything
on your network.
Then anything on your local machine.
So, remote target localhost.
You can see the server there. I can click inspect and it'll
pull up the debug window, and you can see the debug stuff
coming out from the logging, and that means
it works.
The last one here is use my browser to go to vote.localhost
and result.localhost and make sure they work.
All right. vote.localhost is working for me.
result.localhost is working for me.
You'll know the full app is functioning correctly in all
the different parts if you click on one of these, and then
go over here, and it changes the votes.
I voted 100% for cats and if I click on dogs, it's
now voting 100% dogs. That means that
the data is getting from the voting app into the Redis.
Redis gets it into the worker.
Worker then sends it into the Postgres database,
and then the result app properly pulls it from the result
database.
If you wanted, you could also go, of course, to the
traffic.localhost
and see the dashboard of all the frontends and backends and
then the health, stuff like that.
Hopefully you got similar results to what I did and
that it all makes sense.
I'll see you in the next section.